1) Introduction to machine learning

2) data exploration and visualization

3) data preparation

4) Introduction to supervised learning

5) improving machine learning models

6) supervised machine learning

7) unsupervised machine learning


Historical Notes
    - So the term Big Data was coined by these two astronomers in 1997.
    - ccc big data pipeline from white paper 2012
  1) acquisition / recording   -> obtain the data
  2) extraction / cleaning / annotation -> reduce the noise a bit and get rid of the data you don´t directly need
  you're turning the data from what is potentially a pile of rubbish into something you might actually be able to
  work with.
  3) integration / aggregation / representation -> set up the data in a way that's directly conducive to data mining.
  data are going to be properly structured tables and you´v egot one central databases where all that information is
  storaged nice and neathly
  4) analysis / modeling -> machine learning and data mining take place
  5) interpretation -> results

    - kdd (knowledge discovery in databases) process published in 1996.
    two groups of people ccc and kdd they come up with the same diagram.

    - crisp-dm (cross industy standard process for data mining)
    includes business understanding and data understanding
    many backward arrows with many iterations
  1) assessment and business understanding
  What do you really want to accomplish?
  What are your constraints, what are your risks?
  And how are you gonna evaluate the quality of the results?
  2) data understanding and data acquisition.
  velocity, variety, volume, veracity (four Vs of big data)

    - model building
    predictive modeling means machine learning or statistical modeling.
    if your goal is to answer yes or no questions, then this is classification.
    If you wanna predict the numerical value, this is regression.
    if you want to group observations into similar looking groups, that's actually a clustering problem.
    If you wanna recommend someone an item, then this is a recommendation system.
    ....usw

    - policy construction
    To model building that part the last that's predictive, policy construction is prescriptive.

    - Evaluation,
    so how do you measure the quality of the results?

    - deployment
    it will need to be updated and improved.
